README.md, before:

# HAT SHE Functions

## Introduction
HAT She Functions are built using Scala and deployed on the AWS Lambda Platform. The detailed developer's 
guide to the SMART HAT Engine (aka SHE) can be found here -> https://developers.hubofallthings.com/guides/smart-hat-engine/.

There are 2 projects in this repository - `sentiment-tracker` and `data-feed-counter`. These are the default
SHE functions available to the HAT microserver. This README file serves as a Quickstart guide to developing 
a SHE function in Scala by explaining the code layout of `data-feed-counter`. The command scripts used to
deploy the functions are also described.

## Requirements
* sbt
* serverless [https://serverless.com]
* AWS credentials to deploy lambda functions. Remember to configure your serverless with your AWS credentials.

## What constitutes a SHE function
A SHE function must consists of 3 things
1. an endpoint / method to return its configuration [https://developers.hubofallthings.com/guides/smart-hat-engine/01-function-information-format.html]
2. an endpoint / method to define the `data-bundle` specifying what data it wants to receive, parametrised by the date range (fromDate and untilDate query parameters in ISO8601 format).
3. an endpoint / method that accepts 1 and 2 above and does the actual computation.

## Caveats of a Lambda Function
There are 2 ways of invoking a Lambda function on AWS.
* via HTTP endpoints
* via the protocols provided by the AWS SDKs

**The format of the inbound request is DIFFERENT depending on the invocation method chosen.** HAT executes
lambda functions via SDKs. However it's easier to test with HTTPs endpoints with a client like Postman. Hence
you will see later that both the methods above are coded for in the `data-feed-counter` (and `sentiment-tracker`)
SHE function.

## Breakdown of the `data-feed-counter`
We have broken down the project into 3 files, each with a specific purpose.
Looking into the folder `function-data-feed-counter/src/main/scala/org/hatdex/hat/she/functions/`
1. DataFeedCounter.scala
    * performs the actual processing
2. DataFeedCounterHandler.scala
    * handles invocation by AWS SDKs
3. DataFeedCounterProxyHandler.scala
    * handles invocation via HTTP endpoints

The only difference between 2 and 3 is the way input parameters are processed.

Within the `DataFeedCounterHandler.scala`, you will see 3 classes defined
1. DataFeedCounterConfigurationHandler class (DataFeedCounterHandler.scala:LINE 22) which actually gets the `configuration` object in `DataFeedCounter.scala`(DataFeedCounter.scala:LINE 21)
2. DataFeedCounterBundleHandler class (DataFeedCounterHandler.scala:LINE 31) which calls the helper class/method `bundleFilterByDate` in `DataFeedCounter.scala`(DataFeedCounter.scala:LINE 64) to get the data for processing
3. DataFeedCounterHandler class (DataFeedCounterHandler.scala:LINE 13) which calls the `execute` method in `DataFeedCounter.scala`(DataFeedCounter.scala:LINE 127) to compute and respond

The HTTP counterpart in `DataFeedCounterProxyHandler.scala` are
1. DataFeedCounterProxyHandler.scala:LINE 22
2. DataFeedCounterProxyHandler.scala:LINE 31
3. DataFeedCounterProxyHandler.scala:LINE 13

## Building the project for Lambda deployment
We need to build a fat jar file containing all the required classes and libraries for deployment. Use the command `sbt assembly`.
Refer to `build-artifacts.sh` in the root of the repository.

## Configuring the Lambda deployment with serverless
Refer to the `serverless.yaml` file.
1. You need to provide the location of the jar file you have built above. see line 26.
2. Then you need to define the lambda endpoints
    * Again using `data-feed-counter` as example, look at the `functions` section
    * Note that `api-data-feed-counter`, `api-data-feed-counter-configuration` and `api-data-feed-counter-bundle` all points
    to their respective classes defined in `DataFeedCounterProxyHandler.scala`. This defines HTTPs lambda endpoints
    * Note that `data-feed-counter`, `data-feed-counter-configuration` and `data-feed-counter-bundle` all points
    to their respective classes defined in `DataFeedCounterHandler.scala`. This is directly invoked by AWS SDKs.
3. In the `api-*` sections, the endpoint paths are defined.
    * the path is of the format `<function-name>/<version>`. The endpoint is terminated with `/configuration` and `/data-bundle` for the 
    Configuration and DataBundle functions respectively. The `function-name` and `version` name is defined in the 
    `configuration` object of the `DataFeedCounter.scala`. See lines 22 and 24.

## Deployment
Refer to `build-artifacts.sh` file. This script builds the jar files and makes the deployment using serverless

## Posts deployment testing
Refer to -> https://developers.hubofallthings.com/guides/smart-hat-engine/02-function-testing.html
You can use Postman on your endpoints. The Postman collection can be found in the link immediately above.

Commit message:

DAS-532 updates deployment documentation in README

README.md, after:

# HAT SHE Functions

## Introduction
HAT She Functions are built using Scala and deployed on the AWS Lambda Platform. The detailed developer's 
guide to the SMART HAT Engine (aka SHE) can be found here -> https://developers.hubofallthings.com/guides/smart-hat-engine/.

There are 2 projects in this repository - `sentiment-tracker` and `data-feed-counter`. These are the default
SHE functions available to the HAT microserver. This README file serves as a Quickstart guide to developing 
a SHE function in Scala by explaining the code layout of `data-feed-counter`. The command scripts used to
deploy the functions are also described.

## Requirements
* sbt
* serverless [https://serverless.com]
* AWS credentials to deploy lambda functions. Remember to configure your serverless with your AWS credentials.

## What constitutes a SHE function
A SHE function must consists of 3 things
1. an endpoint / method to return its configuration [https://developers.hubofallthings.com/guides/smart-hat-engine/01-function-information-format.html]
2. an endpoint / method to define the `data-bundle` specifying what data it wants to receive, parametrised by the date range (fromDate and untilDate query parameters in ISO8601 format).
3. an endpoint / method that accepts 1 and 2 above and does the actual computation.

## Caveats of a Lambda Function
There are 2 ways of invoking a Lambda function on AWS.
* via HTTP endpoints
* via the protocols provided by the AWS SDKs

**The format of the inbound request is DIFFERENT depending on the invocation method chosen.** HAT executes
lambda functions via SDKs. However it's easier to test with HTTPs endpoints with a client like Postman. Hence
you will see later that both the methods above are coded for in the `data-feed-counter` (and `sentiment-tracker`)
SHE function.

## Breakdown of the `data-feed-counter`
We have broken down the project into 3 files, each with a specific purpose.
Looking into the folder `function-data-feed-counter/src/main/scala/org/hatdex/hat/she/functions/`
1. DataFeedCounter.scala
    * performs the actual processing
2. DataFeedCounterHandler.scala
    * handles invocation by AWS SDKs
3. DataFeedCounterProxyHandler.scala
    * handles invocation via HTTP endpoints

The only difference between 2 and 3 is the way input parameters are processed.

Within the `DataFeedCounterHandler.scala`, you will see 3 classes defined
1. DataFeedCounterConfigurationHandler class (DataFeedCounterHandler.scala:LINE 22) which actually gets the `configuration` object in `DataFeedCounter.scala`(DataFeedCounter.scala:LINE 21)
2. DataFeedCounterBundleHandler class (DataFeedCounterHandler.scala:LINE 31) which calls the helper class/method `bundleFilterByDate` in `DataFeedCounter.scala`(DataFeedCounter.scala:LINE 64) to get the data for processing
3. DataFeedCounterHandler class (DataFeedCounterHandler.scala:LINE 13) which calls the `execute` method in `DataFeedCounter.scala`(DataFeedCounter.scala:LINE 127) to compute and respond

The HTTP counterpart in `DataFeedCounterProxyHandler.scala` are
1. DataFeedCounterProxyHandler.scala:LINE 22
2. DataFeedCounterProxyHandler.scala:LINE 31
3. DataFeedCounterProxyHandler.scala:LINE 13

## Building the project for Lambda deployment
We need to build a fat jar file containing all the required classes and libraries for deployment. Use the command `sbt assembly`.
Refer to `build-artifacts.sh` in the root of the repository.

## Configuring the Lambda deployment with serverless
Refer to the `serverless.yaml` file.
1. You need to provide the location of the jar file you have built above. see line 26.
2. Then you need to define the lambda endpoints
    * Again using `data-feed-counter` as example, look at the `functions` section
    * Note that `api-data-feed-counter`, `api-data-feed-counter-configuration` and `api-data-feed-counter-bundle` all points
    to their respective classes defined in `DataFeedCounterProxyHandler.scala`. This defines HTTPs lambda endpoints
    * Note that `data-feed-counter`, `data-feed-counter-configuration` and `data-feed-counter-bundle` all points
    to their respective classes defined in `DataFeedCounterHandler.scala`. This is directly invoked by AWS SDKs.
3. In the `api-*` sections, the endpoint paths are defined.
    * the path is of the format `<function-name>/<version>`. The endpoint is terminated with `/configuration` and `/data-bundle` for the 
    Configuration and DataBundle functions respectively. The `function-name` and `version` name is defined in the 
    `configuration` object of the `DataFeedCounter.scala`. See lines 22 and 24.

## Deployment

### Build function artifacts

Refer to `build-artifacts.sh` file. This script builds the jar files and stores them in the artifacts folder.

### Setup AWS credentials to assume role

Internally, users are authenticating with AWS by assuming designated roles in the target accounts. In order for the setup
to work with Serverless framework all the configuration information has to be contained in the `~/.aws/credendials` file.
Serverless is not able to pick up profile details from `~/.aws/config` file, documentation of the issue
[can be found here](https://github.com/serverless/serverless/issues/5048). As a result, _inside the credentials_ file the following
information has to be included:

```bash
[dataswift-environment]
source_profile = dataswift
role_arn = arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/Operator
mfa_serial = arn:aws:iam::123456789012:mfa/name.surname@dataswift.io
```

### Deploying

Run the deployment command:

```bash
sls deploy --stage stage --region aws_region
```

Currently supported stages are: staging, sandbox, production, legacy, direct

## Posts deployment testing
Refer to -> https://developers.hubofallthings.com/guides/smart-hat-engine/02-function-testing.html
You can use Postman on your endpoints. The Postman collection can be found in the link immediately above.
